In this activity, we will be
performing classification in KNIME,
first we will create a new workflow and
import our weather data.
Next, we will remove the missing data and
then create a categorical value for
the humidity measurements.
We will then examine summary
statistics of the data before and
after the missing data was removed, and
finally build a decision tree workflow.
Let's begin.
First, let's create a New Workflow.
We'll call it Classification.
Next, we'll import the daily weather data,
using the File Reader node.
Configure the file reader node,
to use daily_weather.csv.
Next, we'll add a missing value node,
to remove the missing values
in the daily weather data.
We'll configure missing value to
remove all the missing values.
Next we'll use a numeric binner node
to create a categorical variable for
the humidity at 3pm.
We'll add the numeric binner node,
we'll connect it to missing value.
We'll select the relative
humidity 3pm column.
We'll create two bins,
the first bin we'll call humidity_low.
And that value will go up to 25.
The second bin, we'll
call humidity_not_low.
We'll check the Append new column and
we'll call the new
column low_humidity_day.
Next, we'll examine some summary
statistics, both before, and
after we've removed the missing values.
We'll add the statistics
node to the canvas.
We'll connect the first one to
the output of the File Reader actor.
We'll add another one to
the output of Numeric Binner.
We'll change the name of the first
one to be BEFORE filtering.
And change the name of the second
one to AFTER filtering.
Lets configure the first one.
We'll change the maximum number of
possible values per column to 1500.
We'll also add all the columns.
Let's configure the second statistics now.
Again, we'll change the maximum number of
possible values per column to 1500, and
we'll add all the columns.
Now let's run our workflow.
Let's view both Statistic
nodes to compare the outputs.
In the BEFORE filtering statistics,
we can see that there are missing values.
However, there are no missing values
in the AFTER filtering statistics.
We can also compare the summary
statistics, for different measurements,
to see that they are similar values.
For example,
let's take a look at air_temp_9am.
We could see that most of
the statistics are the same.
As well as the distribution of values.
In the AFTER filtering statistics,
click on the Nominal tab,
and we'll look at the low humidity
day categorical variable we created.
We can see that the samples are equally
distributed between the two values.
Let's close these Statistics views.
Next, let's add a Column Filter node.
We'll connect this to
the output of Numeric Binner.
Double-click to configure the node.
And we will exclude
relative_humidity_9am and
relative_humidity_3pm columns, click OK.
Next, we'll add a Color Manager
node to the canvas.
Will connect this to the output of Column
Filter, double-click to configure it.
We will make sure the humidly_low is red,
and humidity_not_low is blue.
Click OK to close.
Next, we'll add the Partitioning
node to the campus.
We'll connect this to
the output of Color Manager.
Double-click to configure.
We want to split the data
into two partitions.
The first partition should
have 80% of the data.
The second partition should have 20%.
To do this click on Relative[%] and
change this to 80.
We'll make sure Draw randomly is selected.
And check Use random seed and
change the seed to 12345.
Normally we would not
specific the random seed.
However, since we want repeatable results,
we use a specific seed value here.
Click OK to continue.
Next, we'll add a Decision Tree Learner
to the work flow.
We'll connect this to the top
output of the Partitioning node.
Double-click to configure, and
change the Min number of
records per node to 20.
Click OK.
Next, we'll add a Decision Tree Predictor
node to the canvas, and we will connect
the bottom output of Partitioning to
the bottom input of the predictor.
Next we'll connect the output
of Decision Tree Learner
to the top input of
Decision Tree Predictor.
Now let's execute our workflow.
We can view the resulting
classification rules
by right clicking on
Decision Tree Predictor.
And choosing either View: Decision Tree
View or View: Decision Tree View (simple).
Let's do the first one.
This shows the first two
splits in our decision tree.
We can expand each branch
by clicking on the plus.
Let's close this.
Now let's look at the simplified view.
Again, we can expand the branches to
see the splits in the Decision Tree.
Close this,
finally let's save this workflow.
We'll analyze the results of the Decision
Tree model in the next KNIME Hands On.
Save the workflow by
clicking on the disk icon.